hello I'm Lux M goal welcome to the
Daily Global where we'll bring you the
top stories from around the world in the
past few hours the UN Security Council
has adopted a resolution on Gaza after
days of negotiations it doesn't call for
a ceasefire and leaves Israel in control
of monitoring Aid deliveries but the
United Arab Emirates which sponsored the
resolution says it can make a real
difference for Palestinian civilians the
United States and Russia were the only
two members of the security C Council to
abstain the United States ambassador to
the UN Linda Thomas Greenfield spoke
after the resolution was passed have
listen to what she had to
say it took many days and many many long
nights of negotiating to get this right
but today this Council provided a
glimmer of hope amongst a sea of
unimaginable suffering today this
Council called for Urgent steps to
immediately allow safe unhindered and
expanded humanitarian access and to
create the conditions for a sustainable
cessation of hostilities that was the US
ambassador to the UN while the UN
Secretary General Antonio gues also
spoke after the resolution was passed
and he says despite the Diplomatic
pressure nothing seems to be changing in
Gaza over the last weeks and days there
has been no significant change in the
way the war has been unfolding in Gaza
there is no effective protection of
civilians intense Israeli bombardment
and ground operations
continue more than 20,000 Palestinians
have reportedly been killed the vast
majority women and
children meanwhile ahas and other
Palestinian factions continue to fire
Rockets from Gaza into
Israel well the UK ambassador to the UN
emphasized how the resolution should
help aid suppliers to Gaza and today we
supported this resolution which will
streamline Aid checks so we can
massively scale up the humanitarian
response it demands the immediate and
unconditional release of
hostages and it calls for steps towards
a sustainable cessation of
hostilities and for the avoidance of
doubt we are clear that the resolution
is without prejudice to the rights and
obligations of parties under
International humanitarian
law that was the UK ambassador to the UN
well our un correspondent Neda toik is
in New York with more the United States
explained in the council that ultimately
why while they were happy that this was
stepping up humanitarian Aid they were
not happy that the council did not
include a condemnation of Hamas for the
October 7th attack and she said that is
what led them to eventually abstain now
it is worth noting that that the draft
was humanitarian in nature uh and those
on the council who have
discussed this resolution said there
must be a condemnation of all parties if
one is named and so ultimately
the United States while it it did say
that didn't use its veto to block this
draft and that came after just intense
intense negotiations really at the
highest level in capitals to try to
reach an agreement and as we heard from
the Secretary General today you know he
says there shouldn't be a judgment about
the aid and how much is getting in by
the number of trucks that are at the
borders Crossing into Gaza he said that
there is a real problem with the way is
Israel is conducting its military
operation again these kind of
international calls for a ceasefire are
growing so loudly and while the UAE did
kind of defend this resolution she did
acknowledge the Ambassador L nbe that it
is not perfect and that they will
continue to push for a ceasefire and
another the the language that was
changed in in order for this to to go
through refers to a ceasefire in terms
of creating conditions for a ceasefire
that's what this is that too vague to be
meaningful that's what a lot of critics
argue um you know we saw for example
real divides in the Arab group of
Nations Jordan Algeria you know members
taking their name off sponsoring this
resolution because they thought it was
just watered down too much that it
really made no impact they said it would
be better not to have a resolution at
all rather than to have this one but
again some saying given the Dynamics on
the ground given the United States is
still against a ceasefire it was better
to kind of work within the parameters
they could to get some stronger uh you
know put some a security Council
resolution that would give some push to
diplomacy to get more Aid in rather than
to have nothing so there is a bit of
disagreement about this resolution but
what we heard from a number of members
in the council was that Effectiveness
will be judged in the coming weeks on
how much it actually does change the
humanit humanitarian catastrophe in
Gaza that was our un correspondent Neda
toi